>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Talking
a little bit about Json and .NET,
Json is a very important data
transform language for the web.
It is basically the way that most data
is transferred to and from servers.
So coming from XML, which was a mess,
I don't need to talk
about too much about it.
But in addition to having properties
inside of the brackets or
inside of attributes, there's all sorts
of reasons that Json proliferated, and
it was all the mistakes of XML.
So if you're not familiar with Json,
you've probably seen it sometime before,
especially if you've done JavaScript.
This is just a structure, a very neat,
tidy and very restricted structure
grammar for describing data,
structured data specifically.
And I just wanna touch on the two
major libraries that are used for
for Json in .NET.
So there's Newtonsoft.Json, which has
been around for a very long time and
has been around since the .NET framework
days and is around in .NET core as well.
Typically, for new projects,
you wanna avoid using it and
then System.Text.Json,
which is the replacement.
This is the Microsoft backed
one where they said, okay,
we need to really extract as much
performance and security and
strictness as we can
out of this framework.
We can't do it outta Newtonsoft.Json
without introducing breaking changes, so
we'll bring in System.Text.Json.
So typically speaking, there's gonna be
two things that you're gonna do with Json.
In ASP.NET Core,
it will do this mostly for you, but
sometimes you're explicitly taking
an object and serializing into Json, so
converting something like this to its Json
equivalent, or you're deserializing it.
You're taking an employee object
that is in Json form, and
you're typically reading
it from from Json and
then materializing or
creating that .NET object.
I'm not gonna spend too much time talking
about the differences between the two
other than I I will say
two pieces of advice.
If you're on a new system,
Use System.Text.Json, I it's the Json.
It's the standard way of reading and
writing Json these days,
it's the one that ASP.NET Core uses.
But if you're on an older system and
you're using Newtonsoft,
I would just ask that you don't mix the
two, I don't advise that you mix the two.
Lastly, I guess this is going to be a bonus,
a lot of these Json serializers,
they tend to, by default,
serialize as the ENUMS default value.
So ENUMS are used everywhere.
And for some reason, they made
the choice to serialize ENUMS as if
the underlying value is a 1,
sorry, an integer.
They're gonna serialize it as 0 and 1.
I tend to and our front end people thank
me when I say that all ENUMS will be
sent as strings and
not their underlying type.
It seems like a minor point, but
it is something that I have seen
people do over and over again.
So you're just a couple of lines of
code from configuring that in most
ASP.NET Core solutions, which we'll go over.